P2093R14 Formatted output (#5693)
cplusplus/draft: source/iostreams.tex

}
\end{codeblock}

\rSec2[print.syn]{Header \tcode{<print>} synopsis}

\indexheader{print}%
\begin{codeblock}
namespace std {

>   template<class... Args>

Author: Thanks, done

\end{itemize}
\end{itemdescr}

\rSec2[print.fun]{Print functions}

\indexlibraryglobal{print}%
\begin{itemdecl}
template<class... Args>
  void print(@\exposid{format-string}@<Args...> fmt, Args&&... args);
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\effects
Equivalent to:
\begin{codeblock}
print(stdout, fmt, std::forward<Args>(args)...);
\end{codeblock}
\end{itemdescr}

\indexlibraryglobal{print}%
\begin{itemdecl}
template<class... Args>
  void print(FILE* stream, @\exposid{format-string}@<Args...> fmt, Args&&... args);
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\effects

> If the ordinary literal encoding ([lex.charset]) is UTF-8, equivalent to:

Author: fixed

\tcode{system_error} if writing to the terminal or \tcode{stream} fails.
May throw \tcode{bad_alloc}.

\pnum
\recommended
If invoking the native Unicode API requires transcoding,
implementations should substitute invalid code units
with \unicode{fffd}{replacement character} per
The Unicode Standard Version 14.0 - Core Specification, Chapter 3.9.
\end{itemdescr}

\indexlibraryglobal{vprint_nonunicode}%
\begin{itemdecl}
void vprint_nonunicode(string_view fmt, format_args args);
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\effects
Equivalent to:
\begin{codeblock}
vprint_nonunicode(stdout, fmt, args);
\end{codeblock}
\end{itemdescr}

\indexlibraryglobal{vprint_nonunicode}%
\begin{itemdecl}
void vprint_nonunicode(FILE* stream, string_view fmt, format_args args);
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\expects
\tcode{stream} is a valid pointer to an output C stream.

\pnum
\effects
Writes the result of \tcode{vformat(fmt, args)} to \tcode{stream}.

\pnum
\throws
Any exception thrown by the call to \tcode{vformat}\iref{format.err.report}.
\tcode{system_error} if writing to \tcode{stream} fails.
May throw \tcode{bad_alloc}.
\end{itemdescr}

> \rSec2[ostream.formatted.print]{Print}

Author: Oops. fixed and reference added in synopsis

\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\effects
Equivalent to:
\begin{codeblock}
print(os, "{}\n", format(fmt, std::forward<Args>(args)...));
\end{codeblock}
\end{itemdescr}

\indexlibraryglobal{vprint_unicode}%
\indexlibraryglobal{vprint_nonunicode}%
\begin{itemdecl}
void vprint_unicode(ostream& os, string_view fmt, format_args args);
void vprint_nonunicode(ostream& os, string_view fmt, format_args args);
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\effects
Behaves as a formatted output function\iref{ostream.formatted.reqmts}
of \tcode{os}, except that:
\begin{itemize}
\item
failure to generate output is reported as specified below, and
\item
any exception thrown by the call to \tcode{vformat} is propagated
without regard to the value of \tcode{os.exceptions()} and
without turning on \tcode{ios_base::badbit} in the error state of \tcode{os}.
\end{itemize}
After constructing a \tcode{sentry} object,
the function initializes an automatic variable via
\begin{codeblock}
string out = vformat(os.getloc(), fmt, args);
\end{codeblock}
If the function is \tcode{vprint_unicode} and
\tcode{os} is a stream that refers to a terminal capable of displaying Unicode

> which is determined in an implementation-defined manner,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which is determined in an \impldef{determination of a stream as a Unicode-capable terminal} manner,
```

Author: I believe it is correct as is - this is not defining implementation-defined behavior; we're saying "if it is implementation-defined then ...".

writes \tcode{out} to the terminal using the native Unicode API;
if \tcode{out} contains invalid code units,
\indextext{undefined}%
the behavior is undefined and
implementations are encouraged to diagnose it.
Otherwise (if \tcode{os} is not such a stream or
the function is \tcode{vprint_nonunicode}),
inserts the character sequence

> \tcode{[out.begin(), out.end())} into \tcode{os}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\range{out.begin()}{out.end()} into \tcode{os}.
```

Author: fixed
